                                WEB DESIGN VS DEVELOPMENT

        web designers create the overall lool and feel of a website
        web developers implement the desing using HTML, CSS and JavaScript code

                              WHY TAKE DESIGN SERIOUSLY
  
    GOOD DESIGN                                           BAD DESIGN

1. creates an immediate and                  1. Makes users believe the brand doesnt
  lasting good impression of the             really care about their product or services;
  brand or product;

2. Makes the user trust the brand            2. Makes the user insecurte about trusting
  right away;                                the brand;

3. Increases the user's perceived            3.Makes the brand or product seem "cheap";
  value of the brand or product;

4. Gives users exactly what they were       4.Leaves users confused, and makes it hard
  looking for when coming to the site,       for them to reach their goal.
  e.g. purchasing a product or finding
  information.

                           ANYONE CAN LEARN GOOD DESIGN
    

    good website is not subjective or creative ---- everyone can learn basics by following
                                                    a framework/system

  
                          OVERVIEW OF WEBSITE PERSONALITIES

1. SERIOUS/ELEGANT- for luxury and elegance, based on thin serif typefaces, golden
  or pastel colors, and big high-quality images

2. MINIMALIST/SIMPLE- Focuses on the essential content, using small or medium-sized
 sans-seriff black text, lines, and few images and icons.

3. PLAIN/NEUTRAL-Desing that gets out of the way by using neutral and small typefaces,
  and a very structerd layout. Common in big corporations

4. BOLD/CONFIDENT: Makes an impacy, by featuring big and bold typography, paired with
 confident use of big and bright colored blocks

5. CALM/PEACEFUL: For products and services that care, transmitted by calming pastel
colors, soft serif headings, and matching images/illustrations

6. STARTUP/UPBEAT- Widely used in startups, featuring medium-sized san-serif typefaces,
light-grey text and backgrounds, and rounded elements

7.PlAYFUL/FUN- Colorful and round designs, fueled by creative elemnts like hand-drawn
icons or illustrations, animations, and fun language.


                         9 WEBSITE INGRIEDIENTS


           TYPOGRAPHY

CONCEPTS

 TYPOGRAPHY is the art and technique of arranging type to make written language
 legible, readable, and appealing when displayed.

SERIF VS SANS-SERIF
  
  serif typeface- details at the end of the letters
    -creates a traditional/classic look and feel
    -Conveys trustworthiness
    -Good for long text

  sans-serif typeface- No details and just squared off ends
    -Modern look and feel
    -Clean and simple
    -Easier to choose for beginner designer!

RULES

1. Use only good and popular typefaces and play it safe
    ex for SANS-SERIF(Inter, Open Sans, Roboto, Montserrat, Works Sans, Lato)
    ex for SERIF(Merriweather, aleo, Playfair Display, Cormorant, Cardo, Lora)

2. Its okay to use just one typeface per page! If you want more, Limit to 2 typefaces.

3.Choose the right typeface according to your website personality:
    -Choose the right personality for your website
    -Decide betweeen a serif and sans-serif typeface
    -Experiment with all the "good" typefaces( and other type faces from Google Fonts!)
      to see which ones fits your website's message(this will come with experience)
    -You can keep trying different typefaces as you design and build the page

        GOOD FONT SIZES AND WEIGHTS
4. When choosing font-sizes, limit choices!  Use a "type scale" tool or other pre-defined range

5. Use a font sixe between 16px and 32px for "normal" text

6.For long text(like a blog post), try a size of 20px or even bigger

7.For headlines, you can go really big (50px+) and bold (600+), depending on personality

8.For any text, don't use a font weight under 400 (regular)

    CREATE A GOOD READING EXPERIENCE
9. Use less than  75 characters per line

10. For normal-sized text, use a line height betwen 1.5 and 2. For big text go below 1.5
    -The smaller and longer the text, the larger the line height needs to be!

11. Decrease letter spacing in headlines, if it looks unatural(this will come with experience)

12.Experiment with all caps for short titles. make them small and bold and increase letter-spacing

13. usually, don't justify text.

14. Don't center long text blocks. Small blocks are fine